I don't work on an organ, I always work on an environment.
And I'm very careful not to be too selective, too local.
When we see the liver, it will also organize the omental bursa
as well as the placement of the stomach, ultimately the axis for the spleen,
even ultimately up to the greater omentum.
We will practice on the liver in relation to the heart
and in relation to the omental bursa, but with a different hand position.
simply allow the liver to regain its motility,
because it is what ultimately creates its function.
We start, it's still a somewhat superficial neutral.
But the deeper the neutral, the more the primary respiration manifests.
It is truly this encounter of these two neutrals that brings forth the therapeutic process.
We saw the importance of the liver.
It would also organize the embryo,
in its transverse axis, with the establishment of what is called the
gastro-duodeno-pancreatico-lineal axis,
all this movement, and so it would give all this movement like this.
This tilting that you began to understand yesterday with the venous and arterial network,
it is a developmental movement in growth, which
means that it effectively moves that way.
But it does not make a rotational movement on itself.
So it has this developmental force.
And that is the motility of embryonic origin.
When we put our hands, we will place ourselves rather in a fulcrum
where the entire system is developing.
If I stay local, I leave the original fulcrum.
The closer you get to the embryonic fulcrum, the closer you get to this force,
the more the body can give you information.
Because it knows.
So, the higher its frequency, the greater the regenerative power.
Also take the word "fulcrum", it is a function.
The median line, for example, is a fulcrum for the whole.
But the fulcrum can also be like a pivot point, but there are mobile fulcrums.
I prefer a function.
We saw the heart area where I say "look, this is the fulcrum, this is its arrival".
And so, it is the embryonic fulcrum.
I cannot say it is a point.
This work of good word of tib...
of brain development, we will be able to use it almost as a
tool.
Remember these curvatures, the brain's tai chi, expansion, cephalic
flexion,
cervical flexion, pontine flexion and
telencephalization.
This phase of telencephalization is very important.
It will give the straightening phase and the entire establishment of my anterior white line.
That's why the sternum means both the star, which is done like this
and like this.
We can work on its motility alone, or we can take specific points,
which are support points, like my manubrium tip, like the supraocciput,
like the occipital base or like the sphenoid spray, which will be related to its developments.
For example, the tip...
will be one of the important reference points in submesencephalic flexion and so I can
go look for the point of stillness in the developing system, it will depend on
the support points on which I will place myself, there are phases that will happen together, these are
the synchronicities of development in relation to this brain development, the important vestige
will be found
at the level of the mesenteric system and we see here that we have an
axis
vitelline or mesaraic, you see, which will be found.
That means that sometimes, you have to go back and look for
what happened at that level,
as a reference, as a plan,
to re-energize a developing brain, for example,
on the vascular level.
Don't forget that the brain is completely dependent
in its function and in its formation on the heart.
It is the heart that continually informs it
and we find a pulsation in the brain.
Always good...
We see this image here, we see this septum transversum which wraps around with
the placement of the liver, etc., which would be integrated with this vitelline vesicle.
The establishment of this amniotic cavity, which is all the work we did yesterday,
there is a developmental motility movement that is generated by the liver and
which will set up this entire hepato-gastro-duodeno-pancreatico-
lineal system.
both this tilting of the heart, we will say, on its left axis,
this inverse movement at the
hepatic level, global, and the counter-rotation on
the digestive plane. Here, you have the support
points and we will just work first on this large subdiaphragmatic organization center,
with the entire establishment of the omental bursa, then we will see how it
will present
in relation to my liver.
and the heart, these will be our two points that we will work on.
The cardiac imprint, the pulmonary imprint and the enormous hepatic imprint.
We will do a work on the liver in relation to the placement of the heart and the intestine
and we will enter into a process in the idea of this biodynamics.
That is to say, we will put our hands and let the movement happen.
And there, we can have a movement that comes to seek or we can have a movement that makes its originality.
We will give.
this point so that the system can reorganize itself.
The liver, in fact, is a specialization of the digestive tract.
It should be seen as a fractal expansion of the intestine.
It is a set of bile ducts with two types of information.
A vascular type of information, that's where you have what is called the portal
type liver.
A very red face can express a mesodermal type of liver problem.
A face always.
can explain an endodermal type of liver problem, these
will be two ways of looking at the system.